Hey everyone, welcome back.
In today's video, we are going
to talk about in-painting
using the Qwen model series.
Here's an example. We
have our input image on the left
side and then the in-painted
image on the right side.
Basically, in-painting
will allow us to select
an area. In this case,
it's the chest area here.
And then we tell the model to add
or remove something from the image.
In this specific case, I am
adding a tattoo on the chest area.
Now with in-painting,
you can keep on repeating
this process and you
can get different variation.
It will always be at that exact spot.
So it's always here on
the left side of the woman
and the size will always
match like this here.
Here's another one. Now if
you want to, you can increase the
size as well and you get
control over the size, the position.
And you will be able to
dictate shape. In this particular
case, it's just a tattoo. So I
can modify the shape as well.
Now additionally, you
can do stuff like this, where
we have a blonde woman.
We can change the hair color.
We can add things at the back
to give that perspective look.
In this particular case,
I am adding text on top
of her, which makes it
as if the woman is in front.
Then we have a wall and then the
text is in the middle ground there.
And here's another one where
we are changing the hair color.
I would like to point out that
in-painting is different from editing.
Here's an example of editing. So this
is my input image at the top left here.
And when I am editing, even though I
am not changing anything in the image, you
can see that we have a slight, it's a
subtle degradation of the image quality.
So this one is sharp, this
one is slightly degraded.
If I zoom out, they look
pretty much the same.
On YouTube, I'm not sure if
you're able to appreciate this subtle
change, but when editing it, it
will regenerate the entire image.
When we are doing in-painting, it's only
in-painting the area that we are marking.
However, there are advantages
to editing. For example, in this
specific case here, I'm saying
change the hair color to blue.
And we can see that
the hair style is preserved.
It's only the hair
color that changes.
If you take a look at
the in-painting example,
we see that the hair
style changes slightly.
So you can take a look
here, this side, the editing one
is preserved, but in here
we lose that original detail.
There are advantages
and disadvantages to
in-painting. The same
thing is true for editing.
Today's video will focus only on image
in-painting using the Qwen model series.
I would like to shout out Franc
Aleu for asking this question
on how to do in-painting to
change just one part of an image.
Ok, first you'll need to
make sure that you've at
least updated your ComfyUI
once after September 2025.
If you have not done so, you
can go into your ComfyUI portable
folder, update folder, and in here
just click on update_ComfyUI.BAT.
Alternatively, you can also
go into the manager at the top
and then update ComfyUI
from here, restart your ComfyUI.
In the description of this
video, you will get a GitHub
repository that will take
you to these files here.
There are a couple of
examples that I've added. You can
always open them and study.
I have one for editing as well.
Now for today's video, we
are going to use the Qwen
in-painting workflow. Click
on it, drag it inside of ComfyUI.
And at this point, some of you
may get a notification here telling
you that you are missing some
custom nodes or even missing models.
If you get that notification, just click
on the download button to download
the models. If you get missing custom
nodes, go to the manager at the top.
Click on manager, then click
on install missing custom nodes.
And in here you get a list of all
the nodes that you are missing.
Click on this checkbox
here. It will select everything.
And at the bottom here,
you will get an install button.
Click on it, wait for it to
complete. Once completed,
once again, in here there
will be a restart button.
Click on it, wait for it to
complete. And then you can come
back here, close out of your
manager, and do a refresh.
Press F5, it will reload and
everything should be good now. If
you have any issues, let me
know in the comments down below.
For explanation purposes,
I'm going to go and
rebuild this workflow. I'll
be starting from scratch.
We'll double click on
an empty space and
search for gguf and add
the UNET Loader gguf.
Now because I'm using
the gguf, I do not have the
clip and VAE. I will need
to supply them separately.
Once again, I'm going to
double click and search for load
clip, Add it. And I will also add
a load VAE node. There we go.
Now this point will need to
have a Qwen image model. We'll
be using the Qwen image. I
will be using the gguf version.
This gguf version was
specifically converted to work inside
of ComfyUI. And you do
need to install this custom node.
So once you drag and
drop the workflow inside
your ComfyUI, it will
tell you to install it.
Now to download the
model, we go into files here.
And you will get the Q2
all the way to Q8 version.
The lower the number,
the worse the quality. And
the higher the number,
the better the quality.
Now I'm going to select a middle
ground here. I'm going to go with the
Q4 version. And to download it,
you click on this download button here.
Now once downloaded, it will
be in your downloads folder.
Go into your downloads
folder, press Ctrl X to cut.
Go into ComfyUI main folder,
the models folder. And then look for
unet folder. Inside it, you'll
need to paste that model in here.
Now once inside of ComfyUI,
press R to reload the node definitions.
And then you should be able
to select your model from here.
Now we'll take the
model, drag out. And this
will go inside a k-sampler.
Add the k-sampler.
For the k-sampler, we are
missing these three inputs
here. We need a positive,
negative and a latent image.
For positive, click on it, drag
out. We will use the clip text
encode. This is the default
one that comes built in ComfyUI.
I'm just going to make some
space. By the way, shortcut here,
you can press and hold Ctrl,
drag to select multiple nodes.
And then when you drag
them, it will move as one.
Now we'll duplicate
the positive text encode.
You can press and hold Alt, drag
down, you will get a copy. Connect
this one with negative. And then
we just need to connect the clip here.
Alright, now we are missing
the latent image. And considering
that we are doing inpainting, we
need to provide an input image.
To get an input image,
we are going to double click.
Search for load image.
And we'll use this node here.
However, the image cannot
go directly inside of k-sampler.
We'll need to convert the
image to a latent space.
To do this, drag the image
out and select VAE encode.
This requires the VAE.
We'll pass it from here.
And the output of this latent
can go into k-sampler. Now we'll
finish the workflow by connecting
the output latent to a VAE decode.
This requires the VAE as well.
So take the VAE, connect it. And
then the image can go out as a
preview node or a save image node.
Now at this point, all that
we've done is create an image to
image workflow. We'll need to
add the ability to mask an area.
Right now, we can go into our
image. I'm going to select the image
from the demo. We can right click
on it, select open in mask editor.
And then on the right
side here, you will get your
controls. The thickness will
control the size of your brush.
You can decrease it, get a
smaller brush, increase it to
get a bigger brush. I'm going
to make a selection like this.
Click on save. Now I have a mask in
here. The load image will also output a
mask, but I have no way of connecting
the mask to my current workflow right now.
For this, we are going
to double click on an
empty space and search
for Alimama like this.
We will add the
controlnet inpainting
Alimama apply node.
This is a built in node.
You need to make sure that you have
your ComfyUI up to date to see this node.
Look at it. We can see that
this one has a mask input,
which is perfect. So we are
going to make some space here.
This controlnet will go in between the
clip section and the k-sampler section.
We'll connect the output from
the Alimama apply controlnet to our
k-sampler. So positive goes
to positive, negative to negative.
And then the clip text encode
positive will go here, negative
here. We can connect things we
already have. So VAE will go there.
And then for our image,
we'll have both the image and
the mask. So I'm just
going to arrange this like this.
The workflow at this
point should look like this.
Now, even though
we've added the mask, the
k-sampler will actually
regenerate the entire image.
That is because we are passing the
entire image to our k-sampler here.
So we can see that the
image node goes into this VAE
encode, but there's no
option for masking in here.
We'll need to modify our
workflow slightly to add this
masking information and then
pass it over to our k-sampler.
To do this, we'll take
the latent output from VAE
encode, drag out and
select a set latent noise mask.
This one will take a latent and
then combine it with a mask.
We'll take our mask, pass it to
our set latent noise mask node.
And then the latent output from this
node will go into the k-sampler here.
This set latent noise
mask is not going to do a
hard cutoff around the
edge of our mask like this.
It will actually have a buffer
window, something like this.
This is just a representation, by the
way, because everything is in latent space.
We do have this extra information
that we are passing to the k-sampler.
This way the k-sampler
knows what is around the area.
And when it generates the
final output, it will be able
to blend the in-paint area
with the surrounding area.
Now, right now, this is the
minimum that you will need
in order to do in-painting
using the Qwen Image series.
I'm going to go ahead and in this
case, let's just do a flower attribute.
In the k-sampler here, the number of
steps will be 20, the CFG will be 1.0.
And because we are using a CFG of 1.0,
we will not be adding any negative prompts.
In the controlnet in-painting alimama
apply, we need to add the controlnet model.
So take the controlnet, drag out,
and we'll select a load controlnet model.
Now from here, we are
going to add the Qwen Image
Instant X controlnet
in-painting.safetensors.
If you do not have this
model, you can go into
manager at the top, then
go inside model manager.
In here, at the search bar here,
we are going to search for Qwen.
And then scroll down until
you see the type controlnet.
And then select the one that says
Qwen Image Instant X controlnet in-paint.
This is the one. You
will get an install button
here. Click on install,
wait for it to complete.
It will automatically place
it in the correct folder.
Once it's completed, press R
on your keyboard, go into the
drop-down, search for Qwen,
and just select the in-paint version.
For the load clip, we'll go into the clip
name here and search for Qwen. Add it.
The type will also be a Qwen
Image. Then the device can be default.
The load VAE, search for
Qwen Image VAE as well.
By the way, in case you
do not have these two, when
you drag and drop the
workload inside of ComfyUI,
it will ask you to download
these two models.
In case you are having any difficulty, let
me know in the comments down below.
Okay, so we should be good. Let's
click on queue prompt or run at the top.
Alright, I ended up getting a
few errors inside of ComfyUI.
And I found out that
ComfyUI got updated.
The latest version is
not working right now.
So what I did is I went into
the manager, clicked on switch
ComfyUI, and then I switched to
the previous version, which is 3.67.
So this version probably
got released last night
because I tested this
workflow and it was working.
And now in the latest
version, it's no longer working.
And after that, I restarted
ComfyUI, run the workflow
exactly like this, and I
was able to get my result.
Now, I'm not sure if that
update affects other Qwen
models, but if it does,
now you know how to fix it.
Okay, so let's take a
look at the terminal here.
So 20 steps for me takes about
a minute, 30 seconds to generate.
And this is too long when experimenting
and trying to get a good result.
So the first thing that
we can do to improve
this workflow will be
to add a load LoRa.
And I'm going to select the
LoRa Loader model only version.
This one will patch our
model and will allow us to
use four steps instead
of 20 as it is right now.
We'll take the model,
connect it with the Load LoRa
node, and then the model
output goes into the k-sampler.
Now, I'm going to select the
Qwen Image Lightning four steps V2.
There's also an 8 steps, but with
this model here, you can quickly
bypass this to go back to 20
steps if you need higher quality.
And then if you are experimenting, you
can enable the LoRa to go to four steps.
Okay, it's completed. And this
time, I don't see any changes.
If this happens, we'll have to go into
our prompt and give a better prompt.
Now we have a better image, I
would say. We have a flower pattern.
And all I've done is change my
previous prompt that was saying a flower
tattoo to describing the image and
then adding what I want to add at the end.
So basically, I said a
beautiful woman with a
flower-shaped tattoo on
the left side of her chest.
When you are in painting, it is best to have
a descriptive prompt compared to when you
are editing where you can get by by just
saying change hair color from red to blue.
Editing, you will give
instructions to the model.
In painting, you will describe
what you want to see.
Now, we can do better.
Right now, it's good.
Actually, this is a
pretty good result.
But let's see if we can improve
it by adding one more node.
I'm going to go in between
the Lora and the k-sampler.
Double click and add
AuraFlow. Just search for it.
And I'm going to add the model sampling
AuraFlow node. This is built in as well.
It will take the model,
which is the patched version
from the Lora, and the output
will go into the k-sampler.
Alright, you can think of
the k-sampler as an artist.
And then our checkpoint
here is going to be the brain.
It has knowledge over how the
image is supposed to look, what a
flower is meant to be, and
what is a tattoo, things like that.
Now, our artist here, the k-sampler,
it has techniques on how to draw.
Our model sampling AuraFlow
here, it acts like a teacher.
So let's pretend that our
artist here has a technique
where it's holding the
brush like this, at this angle.
Our teacher here will teach the
artist to slightly shift the technique.
So instead of holding the brush
like this, we will say, okay, hold
the brush maybe at flat angle
so that you can do shading better.
So this shifting of the technique is
what our AuraFlow is responsible for.
The model sampling AuraFlow
is modifying the underlying
algorithm that the k-sampler
will use when denoising the image.
Hopefully it makes sense now. And I
think the default value is 1.73, like this.
And if I keep everything
the same, I'm going to
fix the seed, generate
again, it's completed.
And you probably cannot tell, but
we have a different pattern right now.
Let me go inside of the outputs folder.
And this is the last image I generated.
This is with the AuraFlow, and
this one is without the AuraFlow.
So you see the flower is fully
formed, like the petals here are full.
While in this one, we have this
here where it's missing a little bit.
So we have this improvement
to our final image. It's not
changing it by much, depending
on the number that you put here.
You can increase it positively,
you can also go down.
So let's say we generate at 1.73 and
you find that the quality is getting worse.
What you can do is you can
decrease this value. You start
with 1.5, check the quality,
if it is good, if it is bad.
Depending on that, you increase it
or decrease it. This is modular as well.
If you find that you are
getting better results without this
node, you can select it, click
on this button here to bypass it.
And now you have just
your Qwen image, the
Lora, which goes directly
inside the k-sampler.
If you don't want the Lora,
you can select it, disable the
Lora, go to 20 steps, which
will give you a higher quality.
Now I'm going to enable
the AuraFlow, since it's
making the tattoo here,
the inpainted area, better.
And let's take a look
at another improvement
that you can add
to your AuraFlow.
And we will do it with our mask here.
Right now our mask is a solid mask.
We have a harsh separation
between the mask and the pixel area.
We can double click and add
a grow mask with blur node.
It's going to take a mask. Now we need to
do this before the set latent noise mask.
So we'll add it right in between our
VAE encode and the set latent noise mask.
It will take a mask. The
mask is from our load image.
And then this mask will
go into the set latent noise.
We'll also pass it to our
controlnet like this here.
Now what this one does, it allows
us to expand the mask slightly.
I'm going to go with 3 pixels.
Then we have this blur radius here.
I'm going to go
with... let's start with
10. And let me convert
the mask to an image.
We are going to select
this convert mask to image.
And we can add a preview
image here. Generate.
Now you will see that there is a
slight blur at the edge of the mask.
Now with this blur we can generate.
And whether we have an improvement
or not will depend on the image.
So let's go into outputs here.
So this is without the AuraFlow.
This one is with the AuraFlow.
And this one is with the blur in it.
So we see that it's less harsh when we
have the blur compared to without the blur.
So the edges here are very
dark compared to this one.
Which looks like it's faded a little bit.
It is better because this
is supposed to be a tattoo.
And the tattoo should not
be as sharp as this one here.
Now of course this is a specific case.
As always we can go into ComfyUI here.
And we can enable, disable this section.
Depending on whether you are
getting a good result or a bad result.
Alright so let me load the full version.
This one will be in the description below.
This is exactly the same
workflow that we built today.
And at this point you should
be able to understand it.
This will be all the
models that we are loading.
We also have the lightning
and controlnet here.
Like I said the prompt has
to be descriptive prompt.
There is the model sampling
that you can enable or disable.
At the bottom here there is a little
bit more than what we built today.
There is a preview node here.
There is also a before and after
that is showing you the image.
And where the mask will be applied.
Anything that is in white is
what the k-sampler will denoise.
Everything that is in
black will stay the same.
So biggest advantage
when you do in-painting.
Is that the area which is in black here.
There will not be change at all.
So if you compare these two.
This here is the input image.
This is the output image.
There is no modification
in these areas here.
It's only the part where we
are masking which get modified.
When you compare this to editing.
The entire image will be generated.
And you may see some
subtle degradation in the quality.
Alright so that was it for today.
I would like to say a big thank you to all
of you who joined my Patreon recently.
I really appreciate all the support.
It is thanks to all of you that I am able
to give all of these workflows for free.
And teach on YouTube.
Thank you once again for all the support.
If you watched until the very end.
And you find this video helpful.
Consider giving this a like.
Subscribe if you have not.
I will see you next time.